there's nothing that creates more
sensitivity than that sorry you know the
one the one that tells you there is
danger
and yet it is the feeling we also have
that it is under control that there are
people while trying to alleviate our
fears welcome to the world of the
firefighter in urban areas it's a
full-time vocation in the suburbs in
rural America it is driven by the
volunteer
in Woodbury they're celebrating 50 years
of just that a fire department that has
grown together and grown with the times
and they've seen plenty like feeling
around inside a smoke-filled home for
something
I remember feeling along and I hit hit
something and then there was you know
and we know we're looking for a person
and I can see kind of ripples or it was
soft and it gave under my hand you know
well that was the water scared the
you-know-what out that's what happens
it's very time-consuming the first year
here in what Berrien and most of the
neighboring departments that train lasts
about a year and a half they started off
with firefighter one they go to fire
fight or two they have hazmat mixed in
with those classes then they go to EMT
if that's the morning requirements they
have we do
I mean our number one priority obviously
is firefighter safety we don't want to
injure anyone but if we know there's an
occupant a viable victim we're gonna do
our best to go and get that person out
and we will risk a lot to save a lot
usually if something's not clear then
you kind of stop take a breather and
figure out where you're at what you're
doing but that's why we keep training
like this over and over again and really
it's it's just in your head this is what
we do and this is how we do it and so if
something goes wrong then you really
know it really triggers an alarm in your
head that says this something's not
right
we need to figure out something
different so that'll go up over your
head just kind of like a ski mask on
this day they allow a reporter to
pretend like when he was a boy that he
is a fireman the first step is equipment
and plenty of it how quickly do you
trade it you know with a race to the
it's a race and we try to get everybody
we test them out every year and we get
people that can do it under a minute to
get everything on and including the air
pack and stuff so but good spenders up
here's the helmet right there close
strap down it's a lesson in efficiency
and it's not light can I give you actual
spotted dog yeah when we get it when we
get on the truck we'll give you an axe
so we're off for a simulated adventure
we arrive on the scene and as you do
even though you know it's controlled you
feel the rush hoses and equipment come
out everything must be just right and
yet at a speed that is critical to a
mission when we go inside it's filled
with simulated smoke you now understand
you need real teamwork our
scenario-based trading is huge for us I
think we're trying to recreate that
stress that you get out on a natural
incident now in the next one it's
difficult to explain how you feel when
you're inside because you don't know
what you might find and in this exercise
we found what you fear
okay
from there you learned that every
exercise is different there is no
textbook here just training in instincts
and you find the unthinkable they are
trained that there is an emotional
process to go with it as well
we had our first fatal in 2005 in a long
time you know I think it affects
everybody a little different when you're
there you're working and anybody in
public safety public service will tell
you that whenever you're working you're
focused on what you're doing and helping
whoever it is that's happening really
bad day
afterwards you there's time to reflect
the tough-guy stuff you know I know
you'd talk about it I'm not going to
talk about it because you know I keep it
all inside we don't do that anymore when
a call is over the adrenal glands are
well aware so now you check the vital
signs
I gotta tell you guys that's a rush yeah
how many times have you gone in they
come across her body what we're gonna
live
no I'm she was dead everything the name
of the game is safety that's why this
group is so bonded the difference you
know really between a full-time Fire
Department a volunteer fire department
is it's about community and that
community forms bonds
kind of like a family bond it's all part
of what is a cohesive group one that
carries on the tradition of excellence
and also upholds what a fireman is
supposed to be one that takes their
craft seriously one that cares about
something more than sound and what was
learned by one reporter is it's quite a
feeling well that's a rush folks and
that's a wrap for more information on
life to the max go to our website at
life to the max top TV